September 27, in the lobby of the
Kleberg Center, getting ready to interview Dean
of Agriculture, Emeritus Harry Kunkel. Harry,
test your mic.
Harry, to introduce a future reader of the
transcription or listener to the tape, to
introduce them to you, would you describe your
growing up years and your experience before you
came to A&M to enroll as a student? Where did you
grow up and what did you do and what was your family
doing and so forth? I grew up about four miles
outside of the city of Alney. just across the
county line in Archer County, Texas.
It was a farm, a 252 acre farm. The family did own
another 1100 and some acres near
Westover, Texas.
I was one of two children. My brother was some nine
years younger than me, and therefore I was in
school and away, essentially older than he at the
time that he came along. I did not start school
until I was seven years old. And the school that I
went to was a church school, a private school,
approximately one and a half miles away from our
home. It was a Lutheran school. And I went into that
Lutheran school all the way through the eighth
grade, which then was the first year of high
school.
Did you, was the instruction in English or German?
The instruction was in English. but there were of
course German reading exercises and the like. It
was not as much bilingual as one might have
thought. My home was probably more bilingual. My
grandfather and grandmother lived with us during
the early period of life.
I was probably a pretty shy kind of a person at that
point in time. although I found that
I was able to, I guess, get along with the grades all
right, because I went through the first grade with
a beloved teacher, Miss Johanna Schwaus, and
don't ask me how the bad friend spelled her name.
Then other teachers came. These were male
teachers that were usually in Divinity School and
stepped out a year in order to teach as sort of an
internship type of activity. What were the money
crops on the Kunkel farm? The money crops on the
Kunkel farm were basically
wheat,
There was no cotton particularly. The cotton
picking apparently went by the wayside early in my
life because of the labor and things of the sort. It
was principally wheat and hay and cattle. The
money crops, of course, were butter and eggs and
some chickens. And when you all went to town, it was
to Olney? When we went to town, it was to Olney. We
generally went on Saturdays because Saturday was
the afternoon and everybody came into Saturday.
That's when I went into the Tencent movie, usually
in the afternoon while folks sat out. On the
evenings, the people would park along the main
street and watch the people as they moved back and
forth and made friends and this kind of a thing.
Sunday was probably the biggest social activity
that we went to. Oftentimes we would end up being
invited on the spur of the moment to somebody's
home and having dinner. That's the Sunday meal.
And then would you go back to church after that long
dinner, or did you go home then? We went home after
that. Was there a Sunday evening service?
Sometimes there was a Sunday evening service, and
we would go to that. This was Missouri Synod
Lutheran? This was Missouri Synod Lutheran. So
conservative in its theology? Conservative,
very conservative in its theology. How long had
your family lived out there? My family moved back
there before, I'm not quite sure how long. It was
before the 1900s. They
lived at this place. They bought it in the latter
part of the 19th century. Right, and at Olney High
School, how many were in your graduating class? Do
you remember? There were about 80 in my graduating
class, 83 in the graduating class. Let me tell you
about my work. I went all the way through high
school, and my first year of high school, I still
stayed out at this private school. I was the only
one in class. And of course, it had to be a tutorial
type of activity up to that particular point. I
went only to high school for two and a half years. I
transferred my grades without any difficulty. I
started moving ahead, taking courses, and had no
particular problems. But along the way, we had
become members of a 4-H club, and that 4-H club
I had calves and whatever, chickens and a few other
things.
It was a 4-H club that perhaps was more of a creative
or more of an effect, had an effect on my life and my
future than anything else because the church had
no particular effect. I had wanted to be a minister
when I was young, but I decided something earlier
wouldn't be there. It was in the 4-H club
situations and I began to show calves. I grew a crop
of grain sorghum which was new and it was on judging
teams the first year. I was 14 years old, or 13 years
old. I was 14 years old. I was on the
county meat identification camp. We came here for
the 4-H round of Farmers Roundup at that
particular point in time. So your first visit to
College Station? Was in association with 4-H
work. And about your first year at Olney? High
school? About the first year at Alney High School.
What year would that be then, if you were 14? That
would have been 1937. Do
you remember your impression of A&M at that time?
My impression of A&M was a very solid impression,
and probably that was the reason why I said I was
going to come here and be a student here. At any
rate, team from our county, one state, and then we
were invited to the Chicago, to the National 4-H
Conference. Oh my goodness. And did our judging
there, and we were somewhere down the line, about
seventh or eighth in among the states. I went next
year and decided I couldn't go back in this, so I
went to the poultry judging team, and one state.
and went to Chicago once again on a judging team,
and made a considerable number of friends,
particularly at that point in time, who turned out
to be friends and people who I knew at Texas A&M
University. Who were some of those A&M? Oh, names
fail me. These were faculty? No. Oh, students. Oh,
I see, I see. They were students.
In your family, was there any particular time when
you can recall it was decided you were going to go to
college?
Or had your parents had that? I don't really know
whether it was a particular time. I think I grew up
with the idea that I was going to college no matter
what. That was expected of me at the very outset.
But your parents had not. No, my parents' mother
went through four years of school, and of course
learned to read in a private school. My dad went to
public school,
and then he later on, he came to Blinn College down
in Brenham, and did some high school work at Blinn.
All right. When did you begin to make formal
contact with A&M about application and what was
the process where you applied and were admitted?
Do you remember? You got a catalog and you got the
application blank and you sent it in and somewhere
before September 1939,
You didn't come for any kind of summer orientation
or anything like that? No, there was no such thing
as a summer orientation. The only thing is that I
knew the campus somewhat in the summer of 1939.
They had changed the format of the program and they
asked several of us to chair certain programs.
4-H. No, these were programs, presentations at
the 4-H Roundup, you see, or at the Farmer's
Roundup, Farmer's Roundup as it was called. And at
the 4-H, it's 4-H Roundup now, it was 4-H with the
Farmer's Roundup at that point. That was probably
my first contact with anyone of any real
consequence. at Texas A&M University because I
was chairing a program put on by the College of
Engineering. And so I went to see and visit Mr.
Gilchrist. I became acquainted with him, and he
was actually the first person. It's interesting
that the first person I knew was the dean of
engineering rather than the... Can you describe
your impression of him? Well, I was impressed.
Obviously, he was the dean. I was not taken back by
him because he had a very outgoing personality at
that point in time. Describe him physically. What
did he look like? He seemed to be a large man. That's
about all I can remember of him. But was pleasant
with a student, a prospective student? He was
pleasant with me. I can't say anything else. Now,
on these visits to A&M, before you came to enroll,
you came on the train or how? Automobile. Oh, an
automobile. Okay. About how long did it take then
to drive from Alneta? I would say, oh, on the order
of eight hours or something like that. So a long
day. It was a long day, yeah. All right. Now, when
you came as a student, you're coming to enroll, how
did you come? Who brought you? What did you bring?
My parents brought me. And then left me. Left me at
my quarters at that particular point in time. What
kind of vehicle did you all have then? We had
Chevrolets. We bought a Chevrolet either every
year or every other year. So y'all... The cost was,
oh, on the order of $400 a year. But y'all were doing
better than most Texas farmers then. We had some
oil. Oh really? We had some oil and this is probably
what allowed us to have such things as during the
early period of time we built a new house during my
years, a rock house. We had electricity
by a 32-volt generator with a set of batteries. You
always have to buy the 32-volt appliances. They
weren't always available. Did you have a
telephone on the farm? We did not have a telephone.
How near was it to a telephone? Okay, you went to
town. What did you, if you can, describe what you
brought with you when you came to enroll? What
belongings did you bring? I suspect I brought, I
recall I brought a minimum amount of belongings
because we were all going to be in uniform and there
was a certain amount of uniform that was issued and
then I went back to Waldrop's over here at the North
Gate. I met Mr. Waldrop and he took me in and mother
said that if he needs anything I give it to him.
We'll pay for it, help him out. And essentially
bought the uniform and it was that. There was a few
things like a sweater. We were kind of raunchy
looking for cool work at that point. And where did
you live that first year? I lived in Russell Hall.
Russell Hall. It's a project house. Oh, okay. The
very first project house that was built. It's off
campus, as a matter of fact. Where was it located?
It's on the south gate over here, just off, I don't
recall the street. I recall where...
Following that period of time, there were some
drugstore being built and things of the sort.
How long had it been a project house? I really don't
know. It was certainly there. Now, after that,
using that as a pattern, they had built quite a
series, quite a series of project houses on
campus. And those were already, were they already
there at that time? But yours was the first one.
That was the first one. Describe the routine of the
house. How many were there?
There were, I'd say, about 20 students.
This was Washington County. And how did you
qualify? Well, I had lots of relatives in Redham. I
knew some people that knew some people apparently
was able to make application and be accepted by the
Washington County group. And so most of them were
Washington County boys. Most of them were
Washington County. There were three or four
others or five others that were not. And all of you
were in the Corps. All of us were in the Corps. As a
matter of fact, Corps life... extended out to the
project houses in a way, in an incomplete way, and
I'll tell you why I say that in a minute.
The project house was essentially handled by a
lady who had been selected who was a And she had some
people to help with keeping the house, but we, of
course, had to clean our rooms. We had inspections
by the military. We were hazed. Were the hazers
from within the house? They were within the house,
yes. We had paddles and other things that were
good. We were able to stand it. There wasn't
particularly any protection. Did you all fall out
on the grass outside the house? No, it was all on the
second floor. Oh, okay. In the hallways. As far as
you know, the house had been built by Washington
County people and or money? It was either built or
bought by Washington County. Describe your room,
who was in it, and what was in it. Well, I had two
roommates, one of which had come down with me by the
name of Cole. He didn't blast very long. He left. He
dropped out of A&M and went to Columbia, Texas
Tech. I was a little disappointed in it. And I had
another roommate by the name of Harry K. Lisser
from Chapel Hill. And I think we became friends.
He's now passed on. Were most of these youngsters
Germanic in their ancestry? No. No. No, as a matter
of fact, most of them were not.
The Germanic people, I think, in Washington
County and most of them, really, my family was over
in Austin County. And they were not, at that point
in time, college goers. I see. I see. So you found
that most of that, I'd say the group, they had names
like Alsabrook and so on. All right. And the lady
who kind of ran the house, how did she come, who
selected her? Well, that was something that was
done in association. Obviously, there had been
people that were sort of sponsoring the project
house and people associated with the project
house. And she was selected. She was a native of
Chapel Hill, which is in Washington.
And of course, it was closed during the
summertime. Suddenly, during the regular
section, the project house was open. Did she, was
she the kind of master sergeant of things in terms
of making? Not really, no. She was more of a...
person
that you could talk to, listen to, but generally
she was just a mother. And did she do the cooking?
She did the cooking. Did y'all all, describe the
meal routine. The meal routine is that we all came
down at a meal and had it for breakfast and lunch and
evening meal. I guess we called it supper. And they
were all full meals, family style? Family style
meals, yeah. What were some of the foods that you
remember that were particularly good? I am not
sure I remember any that were particularly good at
all. Was it similar to what you remember at home? I
remember at home fried chicken and occasionally
fried steak, thin battered round steak that had
been beaten and battered. Now, did you and your
fellow residents of that house, did you all pay
cash or did you pay partly in kind? I think, well, we
paid cash. I paid cash at least. Do you remember
what the cost was? It was on the order of $23 a month.
Okay. Who did the washing? We didn't do washing
there. We took our clothes to the laundry. Okay. We
took our clothes to the laundry. All right. When
did you and your fellow residents participate in
the routine of the entire campus in terms of core
activities and so forth? Well, there was a drill
once a week. And that's when we joined the
organization in which we were assigned to. I was
assigned to Sea Battery Field Artillery, a
horse-drawn unit.
I was a member of that organization. I was never
hazed by them, but I was a member of that
organization. And I met them on one day a week. Did
it have a nickname, that outfit? The nicknames
seem to have arrived in the 50s. Were you all ever
teased about kind of being outside the real core
activity? Were you fully accepted? I don't recall
that we were teased. We were not. I don't know that
we were also fully accepted. What can you do? We
were meeting, and you had assignments and things
of a sort. Once a week, two hours at best. You did
meet, you did know some of the students, but
you knew some of your fellow freshmen. And, of
course, you knew the CO and the first sergeant. But
you had students at that house from all four
grades. All four levels, freshmen, sophomores,
juniors, seniors. And you wore your uniforms just
like everyone else. We wore our uniforms just like
everybody else. We had the same requirements of
wearing the uniforms that everybody did.
Describe as well as you can a typical class day,
Monday through Friday. Now, I know you had
half-day classes on Saturday, but let's do a full
day. What time did you get up, and what happened
when? Well, we got up, I guess, about 6 o'clock or
6.30. I don't recall. At least I was able to get up.
There was a call in the house to get everybody up for
breakfast. And then we went. If we didn't have
anything to do, we were other than clean up our
room, that's what we did. Otherwise we went to the
rooms and studied. There was no real area at that
particular point in that project house where you
have a common place.
And
then you took off and walked to class. And whatever
class that you have, it took 18 hours or So that
meant essentially six classes, six different
courses that you were taking. Then in the
afternoons, when you didn't have any classes,
where did you? Well, we had classes in the
afternoon because we had laboratories. Out of a
lot of the classes that we had, we had laboratory
classes. At that time, the School of Agriculture
courses, curricula, were agriculture
curriculum. And the first year, essentially, you
went through a round robin situation. You took a
course in agronomy, you took a course in
agricultural economics, which turned out to be
geography, agricultural geography. You took a
course in animal science, husbandry. You took a
course in ag engineering. You took all in poultry
science. I guess I didn't take one in poultry, but I
did take one in dairy. So all ag majors were
introduced to a fairly broad scope.
And there was no such thing as credit by
examination or anything like that then, was
there? Where you could get some, I'd never heard of
it. The only thing that you had, if you made a
certain amount of grades level, you were exempt
from the final exam. Mm-hmm. And if you had any
spare time when you didn't have a class or a lab,
where did you spend that time? In the library.
I'm smiling because I've heard that from a number,
and I've heard that a few sometimes found a quiet
corner where they might be able to take a nap. Well,
I didn't do that. I found... the music room.
Now this is Cushing Library. Cushing Library. I
found the music room and checked out the records.
And I don't know how many times I listened to Aida.
Now I assume at the project house that there wasn't
much loud radio played at night because there
would be others studying. Now, back to the house
physically. If there were 20 young men there,
describe the toilet and shower facilities in that
project house. There was a toilet and shower
facility on each floor. Okay. About how many could
shower at the same time in one of those? But it
wasn't a single shower. It wasn't a single shower.
Did you all play... It was a community shower. But
you farm boys were not intimidated by that, I'm
assuming. No, it was a community shower. We went
in. Were most of your fellow residents boys from
the country?
No, some were from Brenham, if you call that
country. No. Chapel Hill. Okay.
I was as much from the country as anybody, I guess.
Okay. Were there any rituals at mealtime about the
way the food was passed around or who ate first? You
had a usual freshman type of ritual, but you had to
pass it on. Of course, the language that was there
It came from the campus?
It came from the campus. I've heard a number of
stories that sometimes young freshmen went home
at Thanksgiving or Christmas and forgot and used
some of their slang and made their mothers. Did
that happen to you? I don't think so. I at least
don't recall any horror along that particular
line. In terms of family relations, about how
often did you write a letter home and or get a letter
back from home? I guess
two or three times a week. And do you remember your
mother sending you any cookies or candy? No, she
came to visit me one time and...
That freshman year? That freshman year, in the
fall. And then they came and picked me up. We had
friends, people living in Holly, who were in
school here, and I knew them, and I used to ride
home, ride back, and occasionally just plain old
hitchhiking. Describe Aggie hitchhiking as you
remember it. Well, the point at which hitchhiking
started essentially was downtown Bryan. and or
out in front of the gate going.
This, there was everybody had a particular place
and when you came there you set your bag in order and
you sort of sat and waited till somebody, somebody
did the thumbing when you finally got down to you or
somebody going to some place you wanted to where
they wanted, there was a special reason that you
could jump the crowd. You did it, but you didn't do
it on it. It was strictly with...
Class rank and core rank had no... They had no time
to do it. It was when you arrived. Did you ever have
any negative hitchhiking experience on somebody
gave you a ride that